---
topic: Tools
tags:
  - docker
---
# What is Docker?

Docker is an open-source platform that automates the deployment, scaling, and management of applications by isolating them into lightweight portable containers.

## What are containers?
Containers are the space where the applications can runs. It's like a sandbox that isolates from the host. 

### How do containers work?
Unlike traditional virtualization, which emulates a complete operating system with its hardware resources, containers share the host’s OS kernel and leverage lightweight virtualization techniques to create isolated processes. This approach leads to several benefits, including:

* **Efficiency**: Containers have less overhead and can share common libraries and executable files

* **Portability**: Containers encapsulate applications and their dependencies, so they can easily be moved and run across different environments and platforms

* **Fast startup**: Since containers don't need to boot a full OS

* **Consistency**: Containers provide a consistent environment for development, testing, and production stages of an application, reducing the _"It works on my machine"_ problem.


# Highlights

* **Bare Metal**: is a term used to describe a computer that is running directly on the hardware without any virtualization

* **Virtual Machines**:  are a way to run multiple applications on a single server.

* **Hypervisor**: is a piece of software that emulates the hardware of a computer, provides an isolation between the applications.

* **Open Container Initiative (OCI)**: is a Linux Foundation project which aims at creating industry standards for container formats and runtimes. Its primary goal is to ensure the compatibility and interoperability of container environments through defined technical specifications. For more details: https://opencontainers.org/


